---
layout: page
title: "General SQL Parser FAQ"
permalink: gsp-faq.html
categories:
  - how-to
---

{% include toc %}

### Technical support

##### Q: Does general SQL parser depend on any third party library/software/DLLs?
> General SQL Parser(GSP) doesn't depend on any third party library/software/DLLs.  In order to run GSP Java version, JRE 1.5 is needed. In order to run GSP .NET version, .NET Framework 4.5 or higher is needed.

##### Q: In order to use GSP to validate SQL syntax, do I need to connect to a database instance such as Oracle?
> GSP can validate SQL syntax without any connection to the database instance, no internet connection. GSP includes all SQL parser engines itself, no additional file or connection is needed.

##### Q: How long will my feature request or bug report be processed?
> It depends. Various from weeks to months according to the complexity of the issue. 
> In addition to providing you with our free tech support, 
> we also offer customized services which fix the bug and implement the feature in time, please check info@sqlparser.com for the detailed information.

##### Q: When database vendor add new SQL syntax, how long will those SQL syntaxes be supported in general SQL parser?
> General SQL Parser supports both PL/SQL and SQL. Although we try to add support for all SQL syntax of the database, it's quite difficult to make sure all SQL syntax of the database is supported especially keep up with the recent version. 
> 
> The goal of General SQL Parser is NOT to support all SQL syntax of the database, but support the most used SQL syntax. So, our strategy is to add support for the new SQL syntax when it is requested by the user.

##### Q: Is GSP .NET version a .NET Standard library?
> Yes. General SQL Parser .NET version is .NET Standard compatible which means it can run on all .NET platforms that implement .NET Standard.

### Licensing and billing

##### Q: What's kind of General SQL Parser license do I need?
> General SQL Parser is licensed as per user/developer.
>
> There are three developer licenses: single user license, team license(2-5 developers), and site license(more than five developers). 
>
> The Single License grants the one developer the right to install and use multiple copies of the Software during the development.
>
> The Team License grants all those developers(less than 5) the right to install and use multiple copies of the Software during the development.  
> The Team License cannot be shared or used concurrently by more than five developers. 
> The Team License is NOT a ‘floating’ license; that is, you cannot temporarily transfer access rights to users outside the team.
> 
> A Site License grants you the right to share or use the Software concurrently by multiple individual developers at the authorized site.
>
> You also need to specify the database platforms that need to be included when you purchase the license.
>

##### Q: What if I want to distribute this library?
> This depends on what kind of developer license you purchased.
> 
> This single license entitles you to deploy this library with your software that depends on the library to a single machine. This library can’t be deployed to more than one machine without purchase the additional distribution license.
>
> This team license entitles you to deploy this library with your software that depends on the library to five machines. This library can’t be deployed to more than five machines without purchase the additional distribution license.
>
> This site license allows royalty-free distribution, which means you can deploy this library with your software to your customer without any machine limitation.
>
> Please note that only the licensed developer can access General SQL Parser library; any third-party developer or program can't access APIs of General SQL Parser even your program wraps it.

##### Q: Will the license expire?
> You can use the software without any time limitation. It never expired. Furthermore, you can upgrade to the latest version of the software within 12 months after purchase.
> However, if you like to upgrade to the latest version after 12 months, you need purchase our yearly subscription which enables another 12 months upgrade and free tech support.
> the price for annual subscription is 30% of the original purchase. You will be notified when it's time to renew your license, You need to renew this annual subscription yourself.

##### Q: if I were to buy support for one database to start – can I add additional ones at a later date?
> Yes, of course. You only need to pay the price for the additional database when you need.

##### Q: We have a need to create a parsing service. Can we use the components to develop a parser and then deploy the service to a web-like Tomcat for other to consume via API or is this specific to a specific user and a  specific user’s machine?
> General SQL Parser is licensed as per user/developer. A developer license is needed If any user/developer/machine need to access API, even a wrapper is created and API of GSP is not accessed directly. 

##### Q: May I use GSP in more than one product?
> Yes. There is no limitation of how many products GSP can be used in.

##### Q: Payment term?
> The full licensed version will be available to download from the official site within 2 working days after we receive the payment. You need to send the payment first.
  
### Sales and reseller

##### Q: We are resellers. can we purchase your products for our customers?
> Yes, you can purchase software from our online shop on behalf of your customer. After purchasing software, email us detailed information about your customer. The full licensed version should be available to download from our site within 48 hours after we receive your order. 
There is no discount for reseller within the first 50 licenses.

##### Q: Can we purchase via emailed PO
> Yes, our  award-winning payment processor support emailed PO